Self managed tutorial 2 reworked and rescoped for SSL certificates management (#6224)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/tutorial-self-managed-secure.md

  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: kibana
---
# Customize TLS certificates for a self-managed {{stack}} [install-stack-demo-secure]

> This tutorial is a follow-up to the tutorial [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md). The installation tutorial describes how to configure a multi-node {{es}} cluster and then set up {{kib}}, followed by {{fleet-server}} and {{agent}}. It relies on the {{es}} [automatic security setup](/deploy-manage/security/self-auto-setup.md) and the self-signed certificate generated by the {{fleet-server}} Quick Start flow, as described in its [security overview](./tutorial-self-managed-install.md#security-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is a follow-on to the tutorial [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md). The installation tutorial describes how to configure a multi-node {{es}} cluster and then set up {{kib}}, followed by {{fleet-server}} and {{agent}}. It relies on the {{es}} [automatic security setup](/deploy-manage/security/self-auto-setup.md) and the self-signed certificate generated by the {{fleet-server}} Quick Start flow, as described in its [security overview](./tutorial-self-managed-install.md#security-overview).
```

Reviewer: Just to explain: I don't think `follow-up` has the right meaning in this context. I would stick with [follow-on](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/follow-on). Or you could go with something totally different like "Before you start this tutorial, complete [Install a self-managed..." - or some other way to frame tutorial 1 as a prerequisite, instead of framing tutorial 2 as a `follow-on` (or really anything at all). :) 

In many instances I think you can just remove "the follow-up/follow-on tutorial" and just let the link speak for itself.

Reviewer 2: I would recommend to avoid describing tutorial 1 in the intro here. Instead, I'd focus on the current content and set user expectations at this stage (by describing in broad strokes what they're achieving, what tasks they're performing, in one word, the full path). Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to replace the default certificates and keys from [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md) with certificates and keys you create and install yourself. You start with {{es}}: TLS for node-to-node transport and for the HTTP API, and you align {{kib}} so it trusts the cluster’s HTTP certificate authority. After that, you turn on HTTPS for browsers that open {{kib}}, and you configure TLS for {{fleet-server}} and for {{agent}} hosts that enroll through it.

:::{tip}
To review the baseline security and TLS configuration established by [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md), including {{es}} [automatic security setup](/deploy-manage/security/self-auto-setup.md) and the self-signed {{fleet-server}} certificate from the Quick Start flow, refer to [Security overview](tutorial-self-managed-install.md#security-overview).
:::
```

Author: awesome @yetanothertw , thanks!

With this tutorial, you can replace or extend that default setup by generating and configuring your own certificates across the {{stack}}. For example, you might want to:

> - Use certificates signed by your organization's CA or a public CA for HTTP endpoints.

Reviewer 2: How does this list relate to the tasks described on this page? Ideally, we could bridge that gap by tying in this user-focused task list with the sections that exist on this page.

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need a separate `##Overview` section on this page. Instead, this is where I would add that information. The `##Overview` section currently (the phases you describe there) is what would work best tied into this list of user goals. They just need some alignment if that makes sense.

Author: > How does this list relate to the tasks described on this page?

That list describes generic use cases where the content of this tutorial could be useful.

> Use certificates signed by your organization's CA or a public CA for HTTP endpoints

The tutorial shares explicit steps to create the PKI resources but it also mentions what to do in case the user gets the cert from somewhere else, so they could jump directly to the "configuration steps" without creating the resources first.

But it's true that we could omit all that, it doesn't add much value.

I'll consider removing the list and just integrating the content of the overview, thanks.

- [{{fleet}} TLS flow (one-way and mutual TLS), including output SSL options](/reference/fleet/tls-overview.md#output-ssl-options)
:::

## Overview

This tutorial is organized into the following phases:

- **Configure TLS certificates for the {{es}} transport layer**
  - Generate a new certificate authority (CA) for transport
  - Generate transport certificates for all nodes
  - Apply configuration changes and restart the nodes

- **Configure TLS certificates for the {{es}} HTTP layer**
  - Generate a shared HTTP CA for the {{stack}}
  - Generate HTTP certificates for {{es}} nodes
  - Apply configuration changes and restart the cluster
  - Configure {{kib}} client to trust {{es}} HTTP CA

- **Configure HTTPS for {{kib}}**
  - Generate server-side TLS certificates for {{kib}}
  - Apply configuration changes and restart {{kib}}

- **Configure {{fleet-server}} and {{agent}} with custom certificates**
  - Install {{fleet-server}} with custom TLS certificates
  - Install {{agent}}
  - View your system data

Each section is independent unless otherwise noted, so you can follow only the parts relevant to your setup.

> It should take between one and two hours to complete all the steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Estimated completion time: 90 minutes
```

## Prerequisites and assumptions [install-stack-demo-secure-prereqs]

> Before starting, you must have an on-premises {{es}} cluster with {{kib}} already set up, following the steps in the tutorial [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md).

Reviewer 2: Should this be a list of prerequisites (an unordered list maybe or ordered if there's a sequence that needs to be preserved)?

I would also fold in the `##Preparations` section into its own list item as a prerequisite. Conceptually, that's also a prereq. You can also change `## Prerequisites and assumptions` to `Before you begin` if that makes it easier to unite these prereqs. 

The word `preparations` makes me think of pharmacy concoctions, haha 😅

Author: I'll commit something soon for your review, thanks!

As a result of the cluster installation, all your {{es}} nodes should contain the following files under `/etc/elasticsearch/certs`:

```sh
sudo ls -l /etc/elasticsearch/certs
-rw-rw----. 1 root elasticsearch  1935 ... http_ca.crt <1>
-rw-rw----. 1 root elasticsearch 10077 ... http.p12 <2>
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root           1931 ... transport_ca.pem <3>
-rw-rw----. 1 root elasticsearch  5838 ... transport.p12 <4>
```
1. HTTP CA, in PEM format
2. HTTP keystore for the node, in PKCS#12 format, including the server certificate and key, and the HTTP CA
3. Transport CA, in PEM format
4. Transport keystore for the node, in PKCS#12 format, including the server certificate, the key, and the transport CA

> The existing `elasticsearch.yml` configuration in all nodes should include settings like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The existing `elasticsearch.yml` configuration in all nodes should include settings like the following:
```

This directory is referred to as the **PKI directory**, and the host where these steps are performed is referred to as the **PKI host**.

::::{note}
All CA and certificate generation steps in this tutorial use [`elasticsearch-certutil`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/command-line-tools/certutil.md).

For simplicity, the examples use the first {{es}} node as the PKI host. In production environments, use a separate and secured host for PKI operations, keep CA private keys there, and distribute only the required certificate artifacts to each node.

You can run `elasticsearch-certutil` on any Linux host with access to the {{es}} distribution, for example from the extracted [`.tar.gz` archive](/deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/install-elasticsearch-from-archive-on-linux-macos.md#install-linux).
::::

On the PKI host, run the following commands:

1. Create the PKI directory to store all generated certificates:

    ```sh
    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki
    ```

1. Install `unzip` tool, if not installed already:

    ```sh
    yum install -y unzip
    ```

## Configure TLS certificates for the {{es}} transport layer

> In this section, you create a self-signed certificate authority (CA) used to issue transport certificates for all {{es}} nodes in the cluster. These certificates can replace the existing ones or be used to enable transport TLS on clusters where it is not yet configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you create a self-signed certificate authority (CA) used to issue transport certificates for all {{es}} nodes in the cluster. These certificates can replace the existing ones, or can be used to enable transport TLS on clusters where it is not yet configured.
```

::::{important}
We strongly recommend using a dedicated CA per cluster for {{es}} transport security, not a CA used to sign certificates for other systems or purposes. Never use a public CA for the {{es}} transport layer. Refer to [Using an external certificate authority to secure node-to-node connections](/deploy-manage/security/external-ca-transport.md) for transport TLS certificate requirements. 
::::

### Step 1: Generate a new CA for the {{es}} transport layer [create-transport-ca]

> From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), run the following commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), run the following commands:
```

1. Create a CA. When prompted, specify a unique name for the output file, such as `transport-ca.zip`:

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-certutil ca -pem
    ```

1. Move the output file to the `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport` directory.

    ```shell
    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport
    sudo mv /usr/share/elasticsearch/transport-ca.zip /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/
    ```

1. Unzip the file:

    ```shell
    sudo unzip -d /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/ /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/transport-ca.zip
    ```

1. When the archive is unpacked, it creates a `ca` directory with the following files:

    ```text
    /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/
    └── ca/
        ├── ca.crt
        └── ca.key
    ```

    * `ca.crt`: The generated CA certificate.
    * `ca.key`: The certificate authority's private key.

>     In the next steps, use this CA to generate transport certificates for all {{es}} nodes in the cluster. Keep the `ca.key` file in a secure location and do not distribute it to the nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the remaining steps, use this CA to generate transport certificates for all {{es}} nodes in the cluster. Keep the `ca.key` file in a secure location and do not distribute it to the nodes.
```

### Step 2: Generate transport certificates for all nodes [install-stack-demo-secure-transport]

In this section, you generate transport certificates for all cluster nodes using the CA created in the previous step.

::::{note}
Do not use publicly trusted certificates for the {{es}} transport layer. If you want to use a private or corporate CA, refer to [Using an external certificate authority to secure node-to-node connections](/deploy-manage/security/external-ca-transport.md) for transport certificate requirements and best practices.
::::

> 1. From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), and using the newly-created CA certificate and key, create certificates for all your {{es}} nodes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), and using the newly-created CA certificate and key, create certificates for all your {{es}} nodes:
```

    Would you like to specify another instance? Press 'y' to continue entering instance information: y
    Enter instance name: es-node3
    Enter name for directories and files of es-node3 [es-node3]:
    Enter IP Addresses for instance (comma-separated if more than one) []:
    Enter DNS names for instance (comma-separated if more than one) []:
    Would you like to specify another instance? Press 'y' to continue entering instance information: n
    Please enter the desired output file [certificate-bundle.zip]:
    Enter password for es-node2/es-node2.p12 :
    Enter password for es-node1/es-node1.p12 :
    Enter password for es-node3/es-node3.p12 :

    Certificates written to /usr/share/elasticsearch/certificate-bundle.zip
    ```

1. Move the output file to the `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport` directory.

    ```shell
    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport
    sudo mv /usr/share/elasticsearch/certificate-bundle.zip /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/
    ```

1. Unzip the file:

    ```shell
    sudo unzip -d /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/ /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/certificate-bundle.zip
    ```

>     The process generates a structure like this. The `ca/` directory already exists from the previous step, and the node directories are added when you unpack `certificate-bundle.zip`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    After extraction, `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/` matches the structure below. The `ca/` directory holds the transport CA you created in [Step 1: Generate a new CA for the {{es}} transport layer](#create-transport-ca).
```

    ```text
    /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/
    ├── ca/
    │   ├── ca.crt
    │   └── ca.key
    ├── es-node1/
    │   └── es-node1.p12
    ├── es-node2/
    │   └── es-node2.p12
    └── es-node3/
        └── es-node3.p12
    ```

> 1. View the files that were unpacked for one node directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. List the unpacked files for a node directory:
```

    ```shell
    sudo ls /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/<es-node-name>
    ```

    * `<es-node-name>.p12`: The generated certificate in PKCS#12 format, protected with the password you entered during certificate creation.

### Step 3: Distribute certificates

In this step, you copy the transport CA and node certificates to the {{es}} nodes. Each node receives only its own certificate and the shared CA.

:::{note}
This tutorial uses `scp` to copy files to a regular user's home directory and then `mv` to the {{es}} configuration directory. If your environment supports a more direct transfer method to the final destination, use that instead.
:::

> After completing this step, each {{es}} node should have the following files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After completing this step, the following files should be present on each {{es}} node:
```

- `/etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_ca_new.pem`, containing the CA certificate in PEM format.
- `/etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_cert_new.p12`, containing the node’s transport keystore in PKCS#12 format.

> 1. From the host used to generate all certificates, do the following:

Reviewer 2: For consistency:
```suggestion
1. On the host used to generate all certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), do the following:
```

>     1. Copy the transport CA certificate and the node certificate together to each corresponding {{es}} node:

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this is a formatting issue. Is step 1 supposed to have more than one sub-step? If not, I'd just amalgamate step 1 and sub-step a.  

<img width="774" height="433" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7d8a4a7-39e6-4afe-8ddd-83ac514ed887" />

Author: good catch! on it :)

Author: I'm leaving "From the host" in this specific sentence instead of "on the host" because we are talking about a file transfer between nodes (from... to).

        ```sh
        sudo scp /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/ca/ca.crt \
          /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/transport/<es-node-name>/<es-node-name>.p12 \
          <user>@<node-host>:/home/user/
        ```

1. On each {{es}} node, move the copied certificate files from that directory to the configuration directory:

    ```sh
    sudo mv /home/user/ca.crt /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_ca_new.pem
    sudo mv /home/user/<es-node-name>.p12 /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_cert_new.p12 <1>
    ```

>     1. For consistency and operational simplicity, the same filename is used for the final certificate file on all {{es}} nodes. You can keep the original filenames (`<es-node-name>.p12`) if you prefer, but make sure to update the configuration accordingly in the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. For consistency and operational simplicity, the same filename is used for the final certificate file on all {{es}} nodes. If you'd like to keep the original filenames (`<es-node-name>.p12`), make sure you update the configuration accordingly when you reach the [next step](#configure-es-tls).
```

1. Ensure the certificate files have the correct ownership and permissions on each {{es}} node:

   ```shell
   sudo chown -R root:elasticsearch /etc/elasticsearch/certs/
   sudo chmod 640 /etc/elasticsearch/certs/*
   sudo chmod 750 /etc/elasticsearch/certs
   ```

### Step 4: Configure transport TLS on the nodes and apply changes [configure-es-tls]

> There are two ways to apply the changes, depending on whether you can tolerate a short disruption of the service, or if you prefer to avoid any downtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to apply the changes, depending on whether you can tolerate a short disruption of the service, or if you prefer to avoid any downtime:
```

- **Full cluster restart**: Simpler and faster, recommended for small clusters where a short downtime is acceptable. Update the configuration in all nodes, then stop and start all nodes.
- **Rolling restart (no downtime)**: Update the truststores to temporarily include both the existing and the new CA certificates, allowing nodes to trust old and new certificates during the transition. Then update the configuration and restart each node one at a time until all nodes use the new certificates.

Choose the approach that best fits your operational requirements.

:::{note}
For more information about restart procedures, refer to [Full cluster and rolling restart procedures](/deploy-manage/maintenance/start-stop-services/full-cluster-restart-rolling-restart-procedures.md).

In this tutorial, to reduce downtime, the changes to `elasticsearch.yml` and secure settings are applied while the node is still running, as they do not take effect until restart.

> In the official procedures, these correspond to the step **Perform any needed changes**, but are applied here before stopping the node(s).

Reviewer 2: IMO, this reference is difficult to follow. Maybe you could add an anchor to the specific step you're talking about and also provide more context here, maybe in a contrast-and-compare way.

Something like:

> In [Full cluster and rolling restart procedures](/deploy-manage/maintenance/start-stop-services/full-cluster-restart-rolling-restart-procedures.md), the step [Perform any needed changes](add-anchor-link) is where you apply edits to `elasticsearch.yml` and the {{es}} keystore after every node has been shut down (full-cluster restart), or after you shut down the current node (rolling restart).
> 
> In the tutorial described on this page, those edits are documented before the stop and restart steps. This order is acceptable for transport TLS changes: configuration is read when the node starts, so the new settings take effect on the next restart either way.

Author: Updating the content for your review.... next commit will include a change.

:::

#### Preparations for a rolling restart update [apply-rolling-preparations]

When replacing the transport CA, nodes using certificates signed by a new CA are not trusted by default, so a full cluster restart is typically required unless additional steps are taken.

:::{note}

> These steps are only needed if you want to apply the changes one node at a time, without service disruption. If you can afford a full cluster restart, skip directly to [Nodes configuration](#configure-es-tls-nodes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These steps are only needed if you want to apply the changes one node at a time, without service disruption. If you can accommodate a full cluster restart, skip directly to [Nodes configuration](#configure-es-tls-nodes).
```

:::

> To prepare the cluster to trust both existing and new certificates, perform the following steps on **all {{es}} nodes**:

Reviewer 2: inconsistent formatting with previous steps:
```suggestion
To prepare the cluster to trust both existing and new certificates, perform the following steps on all {{es}} nodes:
```

> 1. Import the newly-created CA certificate into the **existing {{es}} truststore**. This step ensures that your running cluster will trust nodes presenting the new certificates:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Import the newly-created CA certificate into the existing {{es}} truststore. This step ensures that your running cluster will trust nodes presenting the new certificates:
```

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/jdk/bin/keytool -importcert -trustcacerts -noprompt \
      -keystore /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport.p12 \ <1>
      -storepass <password> -alias new-transport-ca \
      -file /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_ca_new.pem <2>
    ```
    1. `transport.p12` is the name of the transport TLS truststore being used (`xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.path`).
    2. `transport_ca_new.pem` is the newly-created transport CA, in PEM format.

    ::::{tip}
    If you don't know the password of your original truststore, you can obtain it from the {{es}} secure settings with:

    ```sh
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore show xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.secure_password
    ```
    ::::

    You can verify that the new key was added to the keystore with the following command:

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/jdk/bin/keytool \
      -keystore /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport.p12 -list
    ```

> 1. Import the original CA into the new `transport_cert_new.p12` PKCS#12 file. This step ensures that reconfigured nodes can join and communicate with existing nodes that are still using the previous CA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Import the original CA into the new `transport_cert_new.p12` PKCS#12 file. This step ensures that reconfigured nodes can join and communicate with existing nodes that still use the previous CA.
```

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/jdk/bin/keytool -importcert -trustcacerts -noprompt \
      -keystore /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_cert_new.p12 \ <1>
      -storepass <password> -alias old-transport-ca \
      -file /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_ca.pem <2>
    ```
    1. `transport_cert_new.p12` is the name of the new transport TLS certificate.
    2. `transport_ca.pem` is the current transport CA being used, in PEM format.

#### Nodes configuration [configure-es-tls-nodes]

> On the first {{es}} node, do the following to configure it to use the new certificate. The final step in this section indicates how and when to repeat the same procedure on the remaining nodes, based on the restart approach you selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the first {{es}} node, complete the following actions to configure it to use the new certificate. The final step in this section indicates how and when to repeat the same procedure on the remaining nodes, based on the restart approach you selected.
```

1. Open the configuration file (`/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml`) in a text editor and adjust the following values to reflect the newly created certificates:

    ```yaml
    # Enable encryption and mutual authentication between cluster nodes
    xpack.security.transport.ssl:
      enabled: true
      verification_mode: certificate <1>
      keystore.path: certs/transport_cert_new.p12 <2>
      truststore.path: certs/transport_cert_new.p12 <3>
    ```

>     1. If you generated individual certificates for each node that include the corresponding DNS names or IP addresses, you can set the verification mode to `full`. Refer to [`xpack.security.transport.ssl.verification_mode`] parameter in [TLS settings](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/security-settings.md#transport-tls-ssl-settings).

Reviewer 2: Is `[`xpack.security.transport.ssl.verification_mode`]` meant to be a link? If not, the square brackets are unnecessary.

        ```

        These secure settings contain the passwords that protect the PKCS#12 certificates created during the installation, and need to be replaced with the passwords of the newly-created certificates.

    1. Remove the existing settings for the default transport keystore and truststore:

        ```shell
        sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove xpack.security.transport.ssl.keystore.secure_password

        sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.secure_password
        ```

    1. Add the secure settings with the password associated to the newly-created certificates. This ensures that {{es}} can read the new PKCS#12 files:

        ```shell
        sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.transport.ssl.keystore.secure_password

        sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.secure_password <1>
        ```
        1. Use the same password in both secure settings, as both `keystore` and `truststore` {{es}} YAML settings are pointing to the same file.

> 1. Apply the changes depending on the selected approach:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To apply the changes, complete the actions that match the selected approach:
```

>     - **Rolling restart**: Restart the node, ensure it rejoins the cluster with the new certificates, and then repeat this procedure on the next node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **For a rolling restart**: Restart the node, ensure it rejoins the cluster with the new certificates, and then repeat this procedure on the next node.
```

      To restart a running node:
      ```sh
      systemctl restart elasticsearch
      ```

      Confirm that {{es}} is running:
      ```shell
      sudo systemctl status elasticsearch.service
      ```

      If needed, monitor {{es}} logs for startup or TLS-related errors:
      ```shell
      sudo tail -f /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-demo.log
      ```

      Refer to [Rolling restart](/deploy-manage/maintenance/start-stop-services/full-cluster-restart-rolling-restart-procedures.md#restart-cluster-rolling) for more details.

>     - **Full cluster restart**: Repeat the previous steps on all nodes, and once all nodes are configured, stop and start the entire cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **For a full cluster restart**: Repeat the previous steps on all nodes, and once all nodes are configured, stop and start the entire cluster:
```

### Step 1: Generate a new CA for the {{stack}} [install-stack-demo-secure-ca]

This section covers TLS configuration for HTTP connections across the {{stack}} by creating a shared HTTP CA used to sign certificates for {{es}}, {{kib}}, and {{fleet-server}}.

From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), run the following commands:

1. Create a new self-signed CA:

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-certutil ca -pem
    ```

    When prompted, specify a unique name for the output file, such as `elastic-stack-http-ca.zip`.

1. Move the output file to the `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http` directory.

    ```shell
    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http
    sudo mv /usr/share/elasticsearch/elastic-stack-http-ca.zip /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/
    ```

1. Unzip the file:

    ```shell
    sudo unzip -d /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/elastic-stack-http-ca.zip
    ```

1. When the archive is unpacked, it creates a `ca` directory with the following files:

    ```text
    /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/
    └── ca/
        ├── ca.crt
        └── ca.key
    ```

> 1. Rename the files to use meaningful names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Rename the files using meaningful names:
```

  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: kibana
---
# Customize TLS certificates for a self-managed {{stack}} [install-stack-demo-secure]

This tutorial demonstrates how to replace the default certificates and keys from [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md) with certificates and keys you create and install yourself. You start with {{es}}: TLS for node-to-node transport and for the HTTP API, and you align {{kib}} so it trusts the cluster’s HTTP certificate authority. After that, you turn on HTTPS for browsers that open {{kib}}, and you configure TLS for {{fleet-server}} and for {{agent}} hosts that enroll through it.

:::{tip}
To review the baseline security and TLS configuration established by [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md), including {{es}} [automatic security setup](/deploy-manage/security/self-auto-setup.md) and the self-signed {{fleet-server}} certificate from the Quick Start flow, refer to [Security overview](tutorial-self-managed-install.md#security-overview).
:::

The tutorial is organized into the following phases:

> - **Configure TLS certificates for the {{es}} transport layer**

Reviewer 2: Sorry this didn't occur to me sooner, but would you consider adding links here for each of the main tasks (not necessary for the steps). This can serve as a mini-TOC in the intro section. Wdyt?

  - Apply configuration changes and restart the cluster
  - Configure {{kib}} client to trust {{es}} HTTP CA

- **Configure HTTPS for {{kib}}**
  - Generate server-side TLS certificates for {{kib}}
  - Apply configuration changes and restart {{kib}}

- **Configure {{fleet-server}} and {{agent}} with custom certificates**
  - Install {{fleet-server}} with custom TLS certificates
  - Install {{agent}}
  - View your system data

Each section is independent unless otherwise noted, so you can follow only the parts relevant to your setup. Estimated completion time is 90 minutes.

:::{note}
This tutorial does not cover mutual TLS authentication (mTLS) for HTTP client connections to {{es}}. If you require client certificate authentication, refer to the following documentation:

- [Mutual TLS authentication between {{kib}} and {{es}}](/deploy-manage/security/kibana-es-mutual-tls.md)
- [{{fleet}} and {{agent}} deployment models with mutual TLS](/reference/fleet/mutual-tls.md)
- [{{fleet}} TLS flow (one-way and mutual TLS), including output SSL options](/reference/fleet/tls-overview.md#output-ssl-options)
:::

## Prerequisites and assumptions [install-stack-demo-secure-prereqs]

> This tutorial shares the same prerequisites as [Install a self-managed {{stack}}](tutorial-self-managed-install.md#install-stack-self-prereqs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Before you begin 

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to avoid having two conceptually similar sections [Prerequisites and assumptions](https://docs-v3-preview.elastic.dev/elastic/docs-content/pull/6224/deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/tutorial-self-managed-secure#install-stack-demo-secure-prereqs) and [Before you begin](https://docs-v3-preview.elastic.dev/elastic/docs-content/pull/6224/deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/tutorial-self-managed-secure#before-you-begin).

In fact, now that I've read the [Prerequisites and assumptions](https://docs-v3-preview.elastic.dev/elastic/docs-content/pull/6224/deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/tutorial-self-managed-install#install-stack-self-prereqs) in tutorial 1, I think that in tutorial 2 only one thing would be relevant to mention as a requirement: that you have installed a self-managed {{stack}} cluster as described in [Install a self-managed Elastic Stack](https://docs-v3-preview.elastic.dev/elastic/docs-content/pull/6224/deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/tutorial-self-managed-install).

My suggestion is to remove the [Prerequisites and assumptions](https://docs-v3-preview.elastic.dev/elastic/docs-content/pull/6224/deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/tutorial-self-managed-secure#install-stack-demo-secure-prereqs) section in tutorial 2. It isn't a great user experience to send readers over to the other doc anyway.

      -keystore /etc/elasticsearch/certs/transport_cert_new.p12 \
      -storepass <password> \
      -alias old-transport-ca
    ```
   
## Configure TLS certificates for the {{es}} HTTP layer [ssl-http]

This section covers TLS configuration for {{es}} HTTP connections. It includes creating a shared HTTP CA that can be reused across the {{stack}}.

::::{note}
Unlike the transport layer, where using a CA dedicated exclusively to the cluster is recommended for security reasons, there are multiple valid approaches for HTTP certificates. For example, you can use certificates signed by a publicly trusted CA, or certificates signed by your organization's CA.

You can also use a single shared HTTP CA across the stack (for example, for {{es}}, {{kib}}, and {{fleet-server}} certificates), or use different CAs and certificate profiles per component to separate trust domains.
::::

### Step 1: Generate a new CA for the {{stack}} [install-stack-demo-secure-ca]

This section covers TLS configuration for HTTP connections across the {{stack}} by creating a shared HTTP CA used to sign certificates for {{es}}, {{kib}}, and {{fleet-server}}.

> From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), run the following commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), run the following commands:
```

1. Create a new self-signed CA:

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-certutil ca -pem
    ```

    When prompted, specify a unique name for the output file, such as `elastic-stack-http-ca.zip`.

1. Move the output file to the `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http` directory.

    ```shell
    sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http
    sudo mv /usr/share/elasticsearch/elastic-stack-http-ca.zip /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/
    ```

1. Unzip the file:

    ```shell
    sudo unzip -d /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/elastic-stack-http-ca.zip
    ```

1. When the archive is unpacked, it creates a `ca` directory with the following files:

    ```text
    /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/
    └── ca/
        ├── ca.crt
        └── ca.key
    ```

> 1. Rename the files using meaningful names:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Rename the files using descriptive names:
```

      ::::{note}
      If you want to generate CSRs to be signed by an external CA, answer `y` to the CSR prompt instead.
      ::::

    * When asked if you want to use an existing CA, enter `y` and provide the CA certificate and key generated in [Step 1: Generate a shared HTTP CA for the {{stack}}](#install-stack-demo-secure-ca):
      * `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`
      * `/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.key`

    * Enter an expiration value for your certificate. You can enter the validity period in years, months, or days. For example, enter `1y` for one year.

    * When asked if you want to generate one certificate per node, enter `y`.

      You'll be guided through creating certificates for each node. Each certificate has its own private key and is issued for the provided hostnames and IP addresses.

      ::::{note}
      If you prefer to create a single certificate for all cluster nodes, answer `n` when prompted to generate one certificate per node, and make sure to include the IP address(es) and FQDN(s) that clients use to access the cluster.
      ::::

>     * **For each certificate to create:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **For each certificate you create, complete the following actions:**
```

      1. Enter a descriptive name for the node, for example `es-node1`.

>       1. Enter the list of hostnames to be added as "DNS" names in the "Subject Alternative Name" (SAN) field in your certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      1. Enter the list of hostnames to be added as `DNS` names in the `Subject Alternative Name` (SAN) field in your certificate.
```

    ```text
    /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/
    ├── elasticsearch-ssl-http.zip
    ├── elasticsearch/
    │   ├── es-node1/
    │   │   └── http.p12
    │   └── es-node2/
    │       └── http.p12
    │   └── ...
    └── kibana/
        └── elasticsearch-ca.pem
    ```

    * `http.p12`: PKCS#12 keystore for each {{es}} node, containing the node certificate and private key.
    * `elasticsearch-ca.pem`: CA certificate in PEM format, used by {{kib}} and other clients to trust {{es}} HTTP certificates. This is the same CA as `elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`.

### Step 3: Distribute HTTP certificates to {{es}} nodes

In this step, you copy the generated PKCS#12 certificates and the CA to the corresponding {{es}} nodes. The new keystore is stored as `http_new.p12`, while the existing `http.p12` remains in use until you switch over in the next step.

:::{note}
This tutorial uses `scp` to copy files to a regular user's home directory and then `mv` to the {{es}} configuration directory. If your environment supports a more direct transfer method to the final destination, use that instead.
:::

> After completing this step, each {{es}} node should have the following files in `/etc/elasticsearch/certs`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After completing this step, the following files should be present on each Elasticsearch node in `/etc/elasticsearch/certs`:
```

- `http.p12`, containing the currently active HTTP certificate.
- `http_new.p12`, containing the new HTTP certificate for that node.
- `elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`, containing the HTTP CA certificate in PEM format.

1. From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), copy each generated `http.p12` certificate and the shared HTTP CA certificate to its corresponding node:

   ```shell
   sudo scp /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/elasticsearch/<es-node-hostname>/http.p12 \
     /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt \
     <user>@<es-node-host>:/home/user/
   ```

   Repeat this command for each node, replacing `<es-node-hostname>` and `<es-node-host>` with the corresponding values.

1. On each {{es}} node, move the received files to the configuration directory and rename `http.p12` to `http_new.p12`:

   ```shell
   sudo mv /home/user/http.p12 /etc/elasticsearch/certs/http_new.p12
   sudo mv /home/user/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt /etc/elasticsearch/certs/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt
   ```

> 1. Ensure the certificate files have the correct ownership and permissions on each {{es}} node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure the certificate files have the correct ownership and permissions configured on each {{es}} node:
```

   ```shell
   sudo chown -R root:elasticsearch /etc/elasticsearch/certs/
   sudo chmod 640 /etc/elasticsearch/certs/*
   sudo chmod 750 /etc/elasticsearch/certs
   ```

### Step 4: Apply configuration changes and restart nodes [configure-es-http]

Updating HTTP certificates in {{es}} clusters can be done one node at a time, following a [rolling restart](/deploy-manage/maintenance/start-stop-services/full-cluster-restart-rolling-restart-procedures.md#restart-cluster-rolling) procedure.

:::{important}
Using new HTTP certificates signed by a different CA can affect client HTTP connections to the cluster, such as {{kib}}, {{fleet-server}}, and {{agent}} hosts. Clients that do not trust the new CA will fail to connect to {{es}}. For production environments, add the new HTTP CA to all client trust stores before applying the changes.
:::

> For each node in the cluster, complete this procedure, one by one:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Complete this procedure for each node in the cluster:
```

1. Open the configuration file (`/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml`) in a text editor and update the HTTP SSL settings to point to the new certificate keystore:

   ```yaml
   xpack.security.http.ssl:
     enabled: true
     keystore.path: certs/http_new.p12 <1>
   ```
   1. Ensure this path matches the location of the new HTTP certificate deployed on each node.

> 1. Update the HTTP keystore password configured as a [secure setting](/deploy-manage/security/secure-settings.md), using the [`elasticsearch-keystore`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/command-line-tools/elasticsearch-keystore.md) utility. First remove the existing entry:

Reviewer 2: `First remove the existing entry:` should be a new sub-step of updating the HTTP keystore password.

   ```shell
   sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore remove xpack.security.http.ssl.keystore.secure_password
   ```

> 1. Add the secure setting again, using the password of the new HTTP certificate:

Reviewer 2: Should this be sub-step 2 of updating the HTTP keystore password?

Author: done

   ```shell
   sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.http.ssl.keystore.secure_password
   ```

> 1. Restart the {{es}} service for the changes to take effect:

Reviewer 2: And should this be sub-step 3?

Author: nope, this should be the latest "main" step, but you were right in the other comments, the keystore remove + add should be sub-steps of the main step "update secure settings"

   ```sh
   sudo scp /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt <user>@<kibana-host>:/home/user/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt
   ```

1. On the {{kib}} host machine, move the file to the {{kib}} configuration directory:

   ```shell
   sudo mv /home/user/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt /etc/kibana
   ```

1. Update the `/etc/kibana/kibana.yml` settings file to reflect the location of the `elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`:

   ```yaml
   elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities: [ "/etc/kibana/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt" ]
   ```

1. Restart the {{kib}} service:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl restart kibana.service
   ```

## Configure HTTPS for {{kib}} [install-stack-demo-secure-kib-https]

This section covers server-side HTTPS configuration for {{kib}}, so browser-to-{{kib}} traffic is encrypted.

::::{important}
Server-side SSL/TLS certificates for {{kib}} are strongly recommended. They are not configured automatically by default.
::::

In this tutorial, you generate a new TLS certificate for {{kib}} using the Certificate Authority (CA) created in [Generate a new HTTP CA for the {{stack}}](#install-stack-demo-secure-ca), but there are other valid options:

> * If you obtain the certificates from a publicly trusted CA or by your organization's CA, copy them to your {{kib}} host, and skip directly to [Configure {{kib}} SSL server and restart](#kib-ssl-configure).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you obtain the certificates from a publicly trusted CA or from your organization's CA, copy them to your {{kib}} host, and skip directly to [Configure {{kib}} SSL server and restart](#kib-ssl-configure).
```

* If you prefer to create a new CA for {{kib}} HTTP, repeat the steps in [Generate a new HTTP CA for the {{stack}}](#install-stack-demo-secure-ca) and provide different file names.
* If you want to create a CSR and submit it to your organization, you can follow the example provided in [Encrypt traffic between your browser and {{kib}}](/deploy-manage/security/set-up-basic-security-plus-https.md#encrypt-kibana-browser).

### Step 1: Generate new certificate for {{kib}} HTTP [install-stack-demo-secure-kib-es]

> To create a new certificate for {{kib}} using an existing HTTP CA:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a new certificate for {{kib}} using an existing HTTP CA, complete the following actions:
```

> 1. From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), use the certificate utility to generate a certificate bundle for the {{kib}} server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), use the certificate utility to generate a certificate bundle for the {{kib}} server.
```

    ```shell
    sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-certutil cert --name kibana-server \
      --ca-cert /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt \
      --ca-key /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.key \
      --dns <DNS name> --ip <IP address> --pem <1>
    ```
    1. Replace `<DNS name>` and `<IP address>` with the name and IP address of your {{kib}} server host.

    :::{tip}
    You can include multiple `--dns` entries if you want your certificate to serve other FQDNs.
    :::

    When prompted, specify a unique name for the output file, such as `kibana-cert-bundle.zip`.

1. Move the output archive to the PKI directory:

   ```shell
   sudo mkdir -p /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana
   sudo mv /usr/share/elasticsearch/kibana-cert-bundle.zip /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana/
   ```

1. Unzip the generated `kibana-cert-bundle.zip` archive:

   ```shell
   sudo unzip -d /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana/ /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana/kibana-cert-bundle.zip
   ```

> 1. The resulting bundle structure is similar to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The resulting bundle structure is similar to the following:
```

   /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana/
   ├── kibana-cert-bundle.zip
   └── kibana-server/
       ├── kibana-server.crt
       └── kibana-server.key
   ```

   :::{note}
   The CA certificate associated with this new certificate is the shared HTTP CA created earlier (`/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`).
   :::

### Step 2: Distribute certificate files to {{kib}}

1. From the host where you generate the certificates (the [PKI host](#preparations)), copy the {{kib}} certificate and key to your {{kib}} host:

   ```shell
   sudo scp /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana/kibana-server/kibana-server.crt \
     /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/kibana/kibana-server/kibana-server.key \
     <user>@<kibana-host>:/home/user/
   ```

   Replace `<kibana-host>` with the hostname or IP address of your {{kib}} server.

1. From the same host, copy the CA certificate associated with the {{kib}} server certificate to your {{kib}} host. In this tutorial, that CA is the shared HTTP CA generated earlier:

   ```shell
   sudo scp /usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt <user>@<kibana-host>:/home/user/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt
   ```

   :::{note}

>    If you used a different CA to generate the {{kib}} server certificate, copy that CA certificate instead.

Reviewer 2: Should this really be in a note admonition? I think it's fine as a paragraph under the step, as an alternative option.

    ```

1. Confirm that {{kib}} is running:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl status kibana.service
    ```

    If everything is configured correctly, connection to {{es}} will be established and {{kib}} will start normally.

1. You can also view the {{kib}} log file to gather more detail:

    ```shell
    tail -f /var/log/kibana/kibana.log
    ```

    Verify that the log file contains a **{{kib}} is now available** message.

1. Access {{kib}} from your browser using HTTPS (`https://<KIBANA-IP>:5601`). Log in using the `elastic` user and the password generated when you installed the first {{es}} node.

    :::{note}
    To avoid browser security warnings and ensure secure TLS validation, client browsers must trust the CA that signed the {{kib}} server certificate (`elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`), or a certificate chain that includes it.
    :::

## Configure {{fleet-server}} and {{agent}} with custom certificates

### Step 1: Install {{fleet-server}} with custom TLS certificates [install-stack-demo-secure-fleet]

Now that {{kib}} is up and running, you can proceed to install {{fleet-server}}, which will manage the {{agent}} that we'll set up in a later step.

> Refer to [Deploy on-premises and self-managed](/reference/fleet/add-fleet-server-on-prem.md) and [Configure SSL/TLS for self-managed {{fleet-server}}](/reference/fleet/secure-connections.md) for more detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to [Deploy on-premises and self-managed {{fleet-server}}](/reference/fleet/add-fleet-server-on-prem.md) and [Configure SSL/TLS for self-managed {{fleet-server}}](/reference/fleet/secure-connections.md) for more detail.
```
just for completeness of the title, otherwise you can just use this format `[](/reference/fleet/add-fleet-server-on-prem.md)` so that the title of the page is used instead.

Author: good catch!

> 1. Log in to the host where the HTTP CA was generated and use the certificate utility to generate a certificate bundle for {{fleet-server}}. In the command, replace `<DNS name>` and `<IP address>` with the name and IP address of your {{fleet-server}} host:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the host where the HTTP CA was generated (the [PKI host](#preparations)) and use the certificate utility to generate a certificate bundle for {{fleet-server}}. In the command, replace `<DNS name>` and `<IP address>` with the name and IP address of your {{fleet-server}} host:
```

1. On your {{fleet-server}} host, create a directory for the certificate files:

   ```shell
   sudo mkdir /etc/fleet
   ```

1. Copy the generated archive over to your {{fleet-server}} host and unpack it into `/etc/fleet/`:
   - `/etc/fleet/fleet-server.crt`
   - `/etc/fleet/fleet-server.key`

1. Copy the {{es}} CA certificate (`/usr/share/elasticsearch/pki/http/ca/elastic-stack-http-ca.crt`) into the `/etc/fleet/` directory on the {{fleet-server}} host and rename it to `es-ca.crt`:
   - `/etc/fleet/es-ca.crt`

    :::{note}
    In this tutorial, the CA used for {{es}} HTTP is also used to generate the {{fleet-server}} certificate. In other environments, these can be different CAs.
    :::

1. Update the permissions on the certificate files to ensure that they’re readable. From inside the `/etc/fleet` directory, run:

   ```shell
   sudo chmod 640 *.crt
   sudo chmod 640 *.key
   ```

1. Now that the certificate files are in place, on the {{fleet-server}} host create a working directory for the installation package:

   ```shell
   mkdir fleet-install-files
   ```

1. Change into the new directory:

   ```shell
   cd fleet-install-files
   ```

> 1. Obtain the host IP address for your {{fleet-server}} host (for example, by running `ifconfig`). You need this value later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Obtain the host IP address for your {{fleet-server}} host (for example, by running `ifconfig`). You'll need this value later.
```

It reads odd in present tense.

Author: here there's a conflict with our styling policy :) because i've heard that we want to avoid future tense unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think this falls into the necessary category 😄 It just doesn't make sense in present tense. You're setting the user's expectation by alerting them to something they will need in the near future.

You can something like: `You're going to use this value in a later step` which still implies the future but uses a present tense (progressive)

1. On the **Choose a deployment mode for security** step, select **Production**. This enables you to provide your own certificates.

1. On the **Add your {{fleet-server}} host** step:
    1. Specify a name for your {{fleet-server}} host.
    1. Specify the host URL where {{agent}}s will reach {{fleet-server}} (for example, `https://203.0.113.41:8220`). You can use the host IP address from the previous step, or a resolvable FQDN. Refer to [Default port assignments](/reference/fleet/add-fleet-server-on-prem.md#default-port-assignments-on-prem) for reference.
    1. Click **Add host**.

1. On the **Generate a service token** step, generate the token and save the output. The token will also be propagated automatically to the command to install {{fleet-server}}.

1. On the **Install {{fleet-server}} to a centralized host** step, select the **Linux Tar** tab (or the tab for your host OS). TAR/ZIP packages are recommended over RPM/DEB system packages, since only the former support upgrading {{fleet-server}} using {{fleet}}.

> 1. Run the first three commands. The commands do the following, respectively:

Reviewer 2: I find this a bit confusing, which first three commands? Do they display in the UI? (if so, we should maybe mention that?)

In Step 15 we're saying run the first three commands, but it's not really an actionable step (it seems to be more informative to set the user's expectations), as we're not really specifying any of the three commands we're referencing.

Author: yes, the ones from the UI, I haven't touched that part much from the original content. I'll try to give it more love, as it's clearly weird and if the UI changes in the future the content will be useless and even weirder.

Author: fixed, let me know your thoughts :)

Reviewer 2: Yes, I prefer that, it's clearer. Thank you!

    1. Download the {{fleet-server}} package from the {{artifact-registry}}.
    1. Unpack the package archive.
    1. Change into the directory containing the install binaries.

1. Before running the `elastic-agent install` command: 
    1. Update the paths to the correct file locations:
        - The {{es}} CA file (`es-ca.crt`)
        - The {{fleet-server}} certificate (`fleet-server.crt`)
        - The {{fleet-server}} key (`fleet-server.key`)

>     1. The `fleet-server-es-ca-trusted-fingerprint` also needs to be updated. Run the following command to get the correct fingerprint from `es-ca.crt`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Update the `fleet-server-es-ca-trusted-fingerprint`. Run the following command to get the correct fingerprint from `es-ca.crt`:
```

        grep -v ^- /etc/fleet/es-ca.crt | base64 -d | sha256sum
        ```

        Alternatively, you can use:

        ```shell
        openssl x509 -outform der -in /etc/fleet/es-ca.crt | sha256sum
        ```
        
        Save the fingerprint value. You’ll need it in a later step.

        Replace the `fleet-server-es-ca-trusted-fingerprint setting` with the returned value. Your updated command should be similar to the following:

        ```shell
        sudo ./elastic-agent install -url=https://203.0.113.41:8220 \
          --fleet-server-es=https://203.0.113.21:9200 \
          --fleet-server-service-token=<token> \
          --fleet-server-policy=fleet-server-policy \
          --fleet-server-es-ca-trusted-fingerprint=<fingerprint> \
          --certificate-authorities=/etc/fleet/es-ca.crt \
          --fleet-server-cert=/etc/fleet/fleet-server.crt \
          --fleet-server-cert-key=/etc/fleet/fleet-server.key \
          --fleet-server-port=8220
        ```

        Refer to [`elastic-agent install`](/reference/fleet/agent-command-reference.md#elastic-agent-install-command) for all options.

1. Run the `elastic-agent install` command to install {{fleet-server}}.

>     When prompted, confirm that {{agent}} should run as a service. If everything goes well, the install will complete successfully:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    When prompted, confirm that {{agent}} should run as a service. The following message displays when the installation completes successfully:
```

Saying `if everything goes well` sounds a bit like we're uncertain and doesn't inspire much confidence.

    ```shell subs=true
    {{agent}} has been successfully installed.
    ```
    :::{tip}
    Wondering why the command refers to {{agent}} rather than {{fleet-server}}? {{fleet-server}} is actually a subprocess that runs inside {{agent}} with a special
    {{fleet-server}} policy. Refer to [{{fleet-server}}](/reference/fleet/index.md#fleet-server-intro) to learn more.
    :::

1. In the {{kib}} **Add a {{fleet-server}}** flyout, wait for confirmation that {{fleet-server}} has connected, then close the flyout.

>     {{fleet-server}} is now fully set up!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    {{fleet-server}} is now fully set up.
```

> 1. Before proceeding to install {{agent}}, there are a few steps needed to update the `kibana.yml` settings file with the {{es}} CA fingerprint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Before installing {{agent}}, complete the following steps to update the `kibana.yml` settings file with the {{es}} CA fingerprint:
```

    :::

1. Create a working directory for the installation package:
   ```shell
   mkdir agent-install-files
   ```

1. Change into the new directory:
   ```shell
   cd agent-install-files
   ```

1. In {{kib}}, go to **Management -> {{fleet}}**. On the **Agents** tab, you should see your new {{fleet-server}} policy running with a healthy status.

1. Click **Add agent**, choose a policy name (e.g. `Demo Agent Policy`), and leave **Collect system logs and metrics** enabled (this adds the [System integration](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/system)). Click **Create policy**.

1. For the **Enroll in {{fleet}}?** step, leave **Enroll in {{fleet}}** selected.

1. On the **Install {{agent}} on your host** step, select the **Linux Tar** tab, or use the tab matching your operating system where you're setting up {{fleet-server}}.

    As with {{fleet-server}}, note that TAR/ZIP packages are recommended over RPM/DEB system packages, since only the former support upgrading {{agent}} using {{fleet}}.

>    Run the first three commands in the terminal on your {{agent}} host. These commands do the following, respectively:

Reviewer 2: The same comment about user orientation in the UI (where are the first three commands? what are the other commands?). It just needs an extra sentence to set user expectations.

Author: fixed

     1. Download the {{agent}} package from the {{artifact-registry}}.
     1. Unpack the package archive.
     1. Change into the directory containing the install binaries.

> 1. Before running the provided `elastic-agent install` command, you'll need to make a few changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Before running the `elastic-agent install` command, make the following changes:
```

    1. For the `--url` parameter, confirm that the port number is `8220` (this is the default port for on-premises {{fleet-server}}).
    1. Add a `--certificate-authorities` parameter with the full path of your CA certificate file. For example, `--certificate-authorities=/etc/agent/fleet-server-ca.crt`.

    The result should be like the following:

    ```shell
    sudo ./elastic-agent install \
    --url=https://203.0.113.41:8220 \
    --enrollment-token=<token> \
    --certificate-authorities=/etc/agent/fleet-server-ca.crt
    ```

1. Run the `elastic-agent install` command. Enter `Y` when prompted. Wait for the **Add agent** flyout to show the agent as connected and for **Confirm incoming data** to complete, then close the flyout.

Your new {{agent}} is now installed and enrolled with {{fleet-server}}.

### Step 3: View your system data [install-stack-demo-secure-view-data]

Use the following validation steps to view your system data.

**View your system log data:**

1. Open the {{kib}} menu and go to **Analytics -> Dashboard**.
1. In the query field, search for `Logs System`.

> 1. Select the `[Logs System] Syslog dashboard` link. The {{kib}} Dashboard opens with visualizations of Syslog events, hostnames and processes, and more.

Reviewer 2: Are the square brackets part of the UI label? just checking this isn't a broken link or something

Author: yes, they are
